Hello and welcome to the very first part of the course. We're going to be covering quite a lot of topics
that span from Front-End to backend.
But, by the end of this course, you should be comfortable using all these tools and technologies.
Although these topics may seem quite different from one another,
the course was designed in a way to have everything flow together.
Although you can skip sections, I recommend you watch them in order because I show you how to connect
the dots on all of these technologies, and what you can do to build the great professional software and
the software that can compete with some of the biggest tech firms.
So hold on tight because we're going for a ride. The very first topic we're going to cover, is the exciting
topic of SSH. SSH or secure shell is a protocol.
What does that mean? You may have heard of other protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP. These are all ways to
connect to computers and have a shared agreement of how to communicate.
That is their protocol or a language that they can speak and SSH is a way for machines to communicate
with one another.
For example, HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol, allows you to send files over the internet like a HTML,
CSS, and javascript files between browsers and servers. FTP or file transfer protocol allows you to send
files as well and is often used when you upload files something like hostgator or a generic hosting
platform from your computer. HTTPS is similar to HTTP but it is encrypted.
That means third parties can't read the files being transferred
if they intercept the messages. And there are many other protocols like IMAP that allow users to send
e-mails and tons of others, and just like these, SSH is another protocol that allows us to communicate
between two computers over the Internet.
It allows users to share files as well as control and modify remote computers over the internet.
Sounds pretty cool right.
It was created as a secure way of communication which again encrypts all data so bad actors can't monitor
you, and don't worry I'll go deeper into each one of these points later on in the videos.
Now you might be thinking, OK, so what's the difference exactly from HTTPS?
I mean, they're both a form of communication and they're both encrypted.
Well just like a web browser uses the HTTPS protocol to talk with servers, and display Web sites.
A shell needs a certain protocol to enable data exchange or communication between two devices and not
just a browser and a server.
And that's why SSH is called secure shell protocol.
It's a protocol to use over shell and if you remember a shell unlike a browser allows you to talk to
the operating system. Yes, you've used your command line before right?
With SSH, I can use my terminal right over here which represents my computer.
To talk to another computer. Let's say this was another computer somewhere in the world.
Well, I can now communicate using SSH from my computer.
To this computer over here through our terminal.
Now the significant advantage offer by SSH over its predecessors is the use of encryption to ensure
secure transfer of information between host and the client.
The host refers to the remote server you're trying to access, while the client is the computer you're
using to access the host.
And as you can see that bad guy up there that looks very suspicious,
he can't read our messages because of encryption.
It's secure.
Now in the next video I'm going to show you how to use SSH.
And finally, talk about why this is useful for a web developer.
Trust me it's going to be fun. See you in the next one. Buh-Bye.